So we have the image picture, let's make sure we can upload it, and for this, if you Google for Firebase
Flutter storage, you should find the firebase storage Flattr package.
And we already saw some flutter firebase packages.
We saw the cloud firestorm package and the firebase off package cloud firestorm helped us with the fire
story database.
Firebase also helped us with firebase authentication and Firebase Storage will help us with the firebase
cloud storage.
Now installing it again is fairly trivial.
We just copied this dependency here and then go to our perspective YAML file and added.
Now, we already saw in the past that adding new projects typically doesn't work on the already running
application.
So we'll go ahead, close it and restarted at this point already.
So did later.
It hopefully works.
Now, with that, we added firebase storage and I want to upload the image whenever the user picked
an image filled out the rest of the form and pressed this submit button we have in the form.
So therefore, we need to do one main thing.
We need to make sure that the picked user image, which we're managing in this user image picture widget
is forwarded, is passed to the off forum because that's where we ultimately collect all entered data
and then again forwarded to the off screen.
In the end, with the help of that submit and property, which we manage all for him, that's how we
get all our data to the off screen in the end.
So we need to get the image to all form so that from there on we can forward it to the off screen.
Now, to get the picked image to be off form, we can use the same approach we've used over and over
throughout this course.
We add a property to the user image picker widget and that property will be a function which we can
call from inside this widget, which we will get past from outside the widget, though.
So here we add a new property, a new final property, which will be of type function, which will name.
Image.
Pick even the name is up to you, though this function will not return anything but from an argument,
from a parameter perspective, it will actually receive that picked image.
It will receive a file.
Picked image as an argument, and now we add the constructor of to user image picker, and there we
make it clear that we expect to get a pointer at such a function as an argument and we then bind this
function.
We get as an argument to this image pick and property.
And since this is bound and since we now have this property, we can call this function whenever an
image was picked to let the surrounding form know about the image.
So here, besides setting our state to preview the image, I will also call widget.
Image pick fine and four words that picked image file, and now we need to go to the forum, which is
where we in the end use our user image picker and pass such a function into that widget.
So for Dadri, first of all, need to define a new function here, which doesn't return anything which
will name.
Picked a match or whatever you want to name it, which gets that image, which is of type file and that
file type, as you learned, needs to be imported from Dart Io.
So make sure you at the start io import your.
And then here.
We will receive that file and I want to store it in a variable here, so user image file.
That's my variable, and that will be of type file and I simply said user image file equal to the image
argument we're receiving here so that stores the image that is picked in the user image picker in that
property of the off form state so that we have it available once we try to submit this form.
Because when we do try to submit here, I want to check if the form is valid and if we have a user image
file.
So if that is unequal to null, because if it would be equal to null, no image was picked yet.
And actually, I'll not do this here in this step.
Instead, I'll add another step here where I check if.
User image file is equal to now maybe, which means the user did not pick an image in this case, we
can return here to avoid that.
The other part here gets executed because I don't want to submit the form.
I don't want to continue if no image was picked and instead we might want to show an error to the user,
we might want to let the user know about the fact that we didn't find a valid image.
And we could use the good old snack bar for this with scaffold of context.
And here we can use this context, show snack bar and create a snack bar.
In here.
Where the content is simply a text widget, where we say, please pick an image.
All the notes that we, of course, only care about the image if we are in sign up mode, so we should
add something to the effect, we should make sure whenever we have image or not.
And if we're not in log-in mode, because if we would be in log-in mode, we don't care about the image.
We only care about it if we're not in log-in mode, if we are signing up.
But if we are signing up, we should validate this.
We should check if we have an image and then we should show it error.
If we have no image, we can also set the background color here to theme of context, error color to
color that snack bar appropriately.
So with that, we should have watched that an invalid form gets submitted.
Now, of course, one missing piece is still that we were up this picked image function to our user
image picker.
So we should forward that picked image function to that user image picker.
So pass it as an argument to that constructor here and don't add parentheses here because indeed, we
just want to pass a pointer to that function to user image picker.
So with that, we don't have the upload yet, but the rest should be wired up and if I tried to create
a new account.
And I enter, let's say, a valid email address.
And everything is valid here and a press sign up, I do get that, please pick an image error here because
I indeed have no image.
And only if I do pick an image, I should be able to submit this.
So let's give it a try.
Now, you see that works, but of course it works without actually uploading that image.
And that's not our goal here.
The image should be uploaded.
So let's now work on the actual upload functionality.